Add doc for agent identity (#284)
wso2/docs-ballerina-integrator: en/docs/integration-guides/ai/agents/managing-agent-identity-and-access-control.md

---
title: "Managing Agent Identity and Access Control"
description: "Learn how to configure secure identity and access control for AI agents."
---

> # Managing agent identity and access control

Reviewer: Title should be title case

> AI agents interact with MCP servers, APIs, and enterprise systems to perform tasks. To ensure secure and governed interactions, it is important to manage **agent identity**, **authentication**, and **authorization**.

Reviewer: Convention is to use bold text for UI elements only. Remove it from all the other places.

 - Control what resources they can access
 - Enforce policies and governance

This ensures that all agent actions are **secure**, **traceable**, and **compliant** with enterprise standards.

This tutorial guides you through configuring **agent identity**, **scopes**, **credentials**, and **authorization** to securely control how an AI agent accesses protected resources such as APIs and MCP servers.

By the end of this tutorial, you will have an AI agent that can **authenticate**, **obtain access tokens**, and **interact with secured services using proper access control mechanisms**.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need to configure an authorization server and obtain the required credentials, such as:

   - Agent ID
   - Agent secret
   - Client ID
   - Redirect Uri

If you plan to use WSO2 Asgardeo and do not yet have the required credentials, follow the steps below to create them.

Before you start, ensure you have an [Asgardeo account](https://wso2.com/asgardeo/docs/get-started/create-asgardeo-account/).

### Register an AI agent

1. Sign in to [Asgardeo console](https://wso2.com/asgardeo/) and go to **Agents**.
2. Click **+ New Agent**.
3. Provide Name and Description:

>     - **Name:** A descriptive name for your AI agent for human-readable display purposes(Eg: `Math Assistant Agent`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Name:** A descriptive name for your AI agent for human-readable display purposes(e.g.: `Math Assistant Agent`)
```

Reviewer: Check all places
